Antikythera Survey Project (ASP)
Last Updated 28.11.11
Andrew Bevan

The accompanying dataset contains information about pottery observed across the full extent of the Greek island of Antikythera by the Antikythera Survey Project in 2005-7 (www.ucl.ac.uk/asp). Each record represents a count of one sherd located approximately in the correct place along an individual surveyor's survey transect. The data is in comma-delimited format (.csv) and an accompanying .csvt file offers simple field type designators for use with GDAL/OGR (see http://www.gdal.org/ogr/drv_csv.html). It is provided under a Creative Commons CC BY 3.0 license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). For further information on individual data fields, please refer to the attribute field dictionary below:

"UID" - a unique identifier for the sherd, if catalogued, composed from either unit-walker-pass-section-sherd (for those sherds collected during stage-one tractwalking) or square-section-sherd (for those sherds collected during stage-two gridded collections). If this field is blank, it implies that the sherd was counted on the ground but not collected and catalogued. For stage-one survey, only feature sherds (bases, rims, handles, decorated peices) were catalogued while within stage-two survey, only prehistoric feature sherds in the square and all prehistoric sherds in the vacuum were catalogued (with a few exceptions for particularly interesting later pieces)

"Xsugg" -  a suggested easting in the UTM WGS84 Zone 34N coordinate system. This has been randomised within the walker section or grid square involved and should be thought of has having a relative accuracy of ca.10m.

"Ysugg" - a suggested northing in the UTM WGS84 Zone 34N coordinate system. This has been randomised within the walker section or grid square involved and should be thought of has having a relative accuracy of ca.10m.

"Type" - refers to whether the sherd was recovered as part of stage-one tractwalking ('tract'), stage-two gridded collection ('vacuum' or 'square') or as an opportunistic grab ('grab') at some other stage of the survey.
